<!-- 
	WebChucK Tutorials, by Mike Mulshine et al

	Praise be to Jack Atherton for making ChucK work on the web... As well as getting Ace to work as a miniAudicle like IDE. WOW.
	
	Praise be to Matt Wright for suggesting the use of pandoc = markdown to html converter, in which we can embed html/js as well.

	Praise of course to Ge Wang for writing ChucK. 

	<3 

	here we go...
-->

<!---
Include the ACE and ChucK stuff
-->

<head>
	<meta charset="utf-8">
  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="./css/editor.css">
</head>

<script type="text/javascript" src="./js/ace.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="./js/editor.js"></script>

## Tutorial 3: Listening to ChucK

[Home](./index.html) ~ [Tutorial 1: Getting Started](./tutorial-01.html) ~  [Tutorial 2: Communicating with Chuck](./tutorial-02.html) ~ [Tutorial 3: Listening to Chuck](./tutorial-03.html)

In this tutorial we will learn how to listen to Chuck Events and other variables.  

### 1. Listening to ChucK Events

An **Event** is a class that encapsulates a very useful mode of communication within ChucK. Effectively, an **Event** represents just that: an event - something did or will happen. A **global Event** let's the WebChucK backend know that an **Event** instance needs to be added to an **Event** registry so that we can keep an eye on it in javascript. 

In the ChucK code below ([*interaction-4.ck*](./examples/interaction-4.ck)), a simple note is played every 300 milliseconds. Simultaneously, we fire off an event via an **Event** class's **broadcast()** method on an **Event** instance called \"step\". 

<pre><div id="chuckEditor1">global Event step;

SinOsc osc => ADSR env => dac;
0.5 => dac.gain;

220 => osc.freq;
env.set(3::ms, 250::ms, 0.0, 0::ms);

while (true) {
    env.keyOn();
    step.broadcast();
    300::ms => now;
}

</div></pre>

Now, let's do something with this in **Event** (\"step\") in javascript. For example, let's change the background color of a simple webpage every time a note is played (or event broadcasted). 

<div id="htmlEditor1" style="height:725">
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
	<head>
	    <meta charset="utf-8">
	  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
	  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/editor.css">
	</head>
	<body>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="./js/webchuck_host.js"></script>

	<h1>Interfacing With WebChucK</h1>
	<h2>Listening to a ChucK Event</h2>

	<input id="startButton" type="button" value="Start ChucK" />

	<script>
		var serverFilesToPreload = [
		        {
		            serverFilename: './interaction-4.ck',
		            virtualFilename: 'interaction-4.ck'
		        }
		    ];
	    var startButton = document.getElementById( "startButton" );
	    startButton.addEventListener( "click", async function() {
	        await preloadFilenames( serverFilesToPreload );
	        await startChuck();
	        await theChuckReady;
	        await theChuck.runFile( "interaction-4.ck" );
	        theChuck.startListeningForEvent("step", stepCallback);

	        startButton.disabled = true;
	    });

	    function randomizeBackgroundColor() {
	        var r = Math.random() * 256, g = Math.random() * 256, b = Math.random() * 256;
	        var color = "rgb(" + r.toString() + "," + g.toString() + "," + b.toString()+")";
	        document.body.style.backgroundColor  = color;
	    }

	    function stepCallback() {
	        randomizeBackgroundColor();
	    }
	    
	</script>
	</body>
	</html>
</div>


Check the working site out [here](./examples/interaction-4.html).

### 1. Listening to (/retrieving) ChucK variables

What if we want to know the value of a ChucK variable for use in our webpage? 

The ChucK code below updates **global float** named *scale* to control an oscillator, modulating its frequency between 200 and 800 Hz. The value of scale itself is normalized to be between 0.0 and 1.0. 


<pre><div id="chuckEditor2">global float scale; 

SinOsc car => dac;

SinOsc mod => blackhole; 
Math.PI / 4.0 => mod.phase;
0.25 => mod.freq; 

0.5 => dac.gain;

while (true) {
    
    (mod.last() + 1.0) * 0.5 => scale;
    scale * 800 + 200 => car.freq;
    
    1::samp => now;
}
</div></pre>

In our webpage, we can tell our ChucK instance (*theChuck*) that we want to know the value of the **global float** named *scale* by passing "scale" in to a function called **getFloat()**. **getFloat(\"variable\")** returns a [**Promise**][https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise], which effectively serves as a placeholder for a value that hasn't been retrieved yet. The cool thing is that you can associate a handler (a function) with a **Promise**, which will be called when the Promise task is completed (in our case, retrieving a value from the WebChucK thread). 

Below is a demonstration of how you can chain a **getFloat(\"variable\")** call to a function using **.then()**. See *updateBackgroundColor()*, which is called at an interval of 50ms.

<div id="htmlEditor2" style="height:725">
	<!DOCTYPE html>
	<html>
	<head>
	    <meta charset="utf-8">
	  <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8">
	  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../css/editor.css">
	</head>
	<body>
	<script type="text/javascript" src="./js/webchuck_host.js"></script>

	<h1>Interfacing With WebChucK</h1>
	<h2>Listening to a ChucK Variable</h2>

	<input id="startButton" type="button" value="Start ChucK" />

	<script>
		var serverFilesToPreload = [
		        {
		            serverFilename: './interaction-5.ck',
		            virtualFilename: 'interaction-5.ck'
		        }
		    ];
	    var startButton = document.getElementById( "startButton" );
	    startButton.addEventListener( "click", async function() {
	        await preloadFilenames( serverFilesToPreload );
	        await startChuck();
	        await theChuckReady;
	        await theChuck.runFile( "interaction-5.ck" );
	        setInterval(updateBackgroundColor, 50);
	        startButton.disabled = true;
	    });


	    function updateBackgroundColor() {
	        theChuck.getFloat("scale").then( function(val) {
	            var r = val * 256, g = 100, b = 100;
	            var color = "rgb(" + r.toString() + "," + g.toString() + "," + b.toString()+")";
	            document.body.style.backgroundColor  = color;
	        });
	    }

	</script>
	</body>
	</html>
</div>

This is a non-intuitive syntax, but ends up being quite easy to work with in context. 


Check the working site out [here](./examples/interaction-5.html).

[Home](./index.html) ~ [Tutorial 1: Getting Started](./tutorial-01.html) ~  [Tutorial 2: Communicating with Chuck](./tutorial-02.html) ~ [Tutorial 3: Listening to Chuck](./tutorial-03.html)


<script>
	var htmlEditor1 = newHTMLEditor("htmlEditor1", true);
	var htmlEditor2 = newHTMLEditor("htmlEditor2", true);

	var chuckEditor1 = newChuckEditor("chuckEditor1", true);
	var chuckEditor2 = newChuckEditor("chuckEditor2", true);

</script>
